#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass scrartcl
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{multicol}

\usepackage{graphicx}
\usepackage{listings}

\usepackage{color}
\lstset{tabsize=2, breaklines=true, 
  breakatwhitespace=true,
  language=R,
  captionpos=b,
  frame=single,
  framerule=0.2pt,
  framesep=1pt,
  numbers=left,
  numberstyle=\tiny,
  numbersep=5pt,
  showstringspaces=false,
  basicstyle=\footnotesize,
  identifierstyle=\color{magenta},
  keywordstyle=\bfseries,
  commentstyle=\color{darkgreen},
  stringstyle=\color{red},
  backgroundcolor=\color[gray]{0.97}
}

\usepackage{caption}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
logicalmkup
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "lmodern" "default"
\font_sans "lmss" "default"
\font_typewriter "lmtt" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf2
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing double
\use_hyperref false
\papersize letterpaper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation 0.5in
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
POLS 904 Project Proposal
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Patrick Gauding
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
today
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The 
\begin_inset Flex Code
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
pcse
\end_layout

\end_inset

 package provides the capability of obtaining panel-corrected standard errors
 (PCSE) in R.
 PCSE is used to correct for heterskedastistically distributed errors caused
 by correlations between the error terms.
 A common situation which requires PCSE is cross-section time series analysis,
 as errors may be correlated across time, leading to non-informative t and
 F statistics when uncorrected.
 The 
\begin_inset Flex Code
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
pcse
\end_layout

\end_inset

 package obtains corrected estimates; however, the package does so using
 full transformations of matrices within the function calls, which is needlessly
 inefficient at smaller numbers of cases, and fatal at larger numbers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The goals of this project are as follows.
 First, I will identify the major functions within the package and explain
 how they operate.
 Next I will test the package with various case sizes to reproduce an error
 which is expected to occur as the number of cases increases.
 I will also need to investigate how the number of regressors affects package
 performance.
 The expected condition is that the package will fail to run due to being
 overwhelmed by the number of caluclations in matrix transformations.
 The 
\begin_inset Flex Code
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
t()
\end_layout

\end_inset

 function in base R provides for the full transformation of matrices.
 However, since the output matrix of PCSE is a symmetrical matrix, this
 is wastefully inefficient, in that calculations are run twice on information
 which is succinctly contained in one half of the matrix.
 Next, I will implement a QR decomposition process into the package, which
 will ideally improve efficiency and allow for larger numbers of cases.
 Finally, I will pursue packaging my improvements as a new PCSE package.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
